hello you are watching the garden corner
show where we are where we show our a we
normally are a show who are crazy
passionate about everything Harding I am
sorry I am J dog John Carson and I'm out
here with mr. Dave and mr. Dave was just
tucked right through right underneath
cover to protect the expensive
electronic equipment that we currently
have which is just a little home video
camera inside scoop hey I want to tell
you about now the rain is coming down
and it is it is it is wet and a tad bit
cold as well as being out here I can
tell you but now there's some of you
this last weekend we brought out our
first four inch tomatoes and just
because we brought the fort first four
inch Tomatoes doesn't me that's really
the best time to bring out four inch
Tomatoes so why do we bring out four
inch Tomatoes
you are asking well the reason is
because there's a few of us that really
want to be eating tomatoes as early as
possible sometimes the issue is when we
get to planting the tomatoes is that
well it's late late summer when we're
really able to eat tomatoes and the
quicker we're able to eat them
not better so I want to show you a trick
on how you can plant a tomato and early
should I say and maybe perhaps get it
really growing strong so you may be able
to harvest Tomatoes earlier so now I've
got some I want to say some very
predictable Tomatoes here I have a Roma
tomato a yellow pear and a early girl
very standard to me
our selection really grows from here on
out we get those heirloom tomatoes too
I really like but and if you do it by
the way its total total side note if you
do a small tomato think of son sugar
tomato that's really a nice very sweet
small cherry tomato it's just why I've
got to mention right now
here's an early growth preten that you
are planting the early girl what happens
is the frost is going to hit that and it
is going to be miserable you won't gain
any ground planting it now one way you
can help protect it is to plant it
correct and then surround it and how you
can surround it is with these now
originally called wells of water and
there's companies I think a company that
still does
I mean actually makes the walls of water
now they're called what was this called
again Mission Bay yeah I've always
called it wall of water I keep it's
called it's called garden tuck it in or
something like that I forgot what it is
essentially it's a wall of water it is a
plastic material that goes around there
they're made out of these columns that
are glued together and you fill these up
with water let me show you very quickly
how to do that that fills up with water
and the whole reason is is that when
these during the daylight hours the
water actually warms up and it keeps
your tomato plant a tad bit a bit warmer
during the nighttime also it protects it
from the cold winds
and just keeps it kind of in a
greenhouse effect type of environment so
so it cooks I want to say your tomatoes
get cooked and with that warmth it
really starts to grow and this does I
must say really makes a difference if
you want a thick tomato so it goes
something like this the trick on these
by the way is to make sure that all the
cells get filled up sometimes it's easy
to miss it sell let me show you - also
what happens and when you get a threat
of frost going so hold on a second let
me fill all of these up and know
normally you would do this in a with a
little spray gun but since we are here
so I am just filling up all that so I've
got a container full of water here so
now we put it around the tomato and the
tomato just sits in there and gets
cooked really nice and cozy now if we
get a threat of frost or really gets
cold what we want to do is take a rubber
band around this top and just make it a
teepee sometimes you can even get by
just just fun tucking it in like that
and then when the during the daytime
when it's when it starts to what's nice
and warm you just open it back up these
really help your Tomatoes grow so this
is just only if you want quicker faster
tomatoes it comes in a three pack by the
way you can certainly buy them
individually anyway I hope that that is
your helpful hint for the day I hope it
helps but if you not didn't even get a
thing out of it here's your quote it is
the best thing one can do when it is
raining is to let it rain thank you very
much
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow that's the
show for the day always live
your passion